Please answer the below core-java Questions:


What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
:-JDK: Java Development Kit;-javac--java compiler;debugger--java debugger
:-jvm---java virtual machine;jre---java run time environmrnt;java loader

What is IDE?
:-Integrated Development Environment

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
:-Eclipse;Intellij

Explain the entire java life cycle.
:-Java life cycle follows: Editor=>Source code=>java Compiler=>Bytecode
:-=>JVM=>Operating System

what is class?
:- blue print for an object

What is object?
:- Instance of a class

What is the entry point of an application?
:-If you have an application bundled in a JAR file, you need some way to indicate which class within the JAR file is your application's entry point. 
:-You provide this information with the Main-Class header in the manifest

Why main is static?
:-The method is static because otherwise there would be ambiguity:
:-and declaring it static means d/f object can share it.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
:-Methods of a java interface are implicitly abstract and cannot
:-have implementations. A java abstract class can have instance
:-methods that implements a default behavior, and variables in 
:-java interface are by default final and abstract may contain non 
:-final variables.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
:-we cannot instantiate an abstract class or an interface;
:-we can instantiate one of their subclasses

what is Access Specifier?
:-They set access levels for classes, variables, methods and
:-constructors. example:(public);(private);(protected)

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
:-Object-Oriented Programming, programming language oraganized
:-around objects 
:-1)Abstraction: implementation Hidding;2)Encapsulation: data hidding
:-3)Inheritance: Reusibility of code;4)Polymorphism: ability of an object to take multiple forms

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
:-Application Programming Interface: tools for building software applications.
:-list:-java.util.Scanner;java.util.String;java.lang;e.t.c

Does java support multiple inheritance?
:-yes, an Object can have multiple types.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
:-Method overloading occurs when more than one method in the
:-same class have the same name but different parameters

What is method overriding and when it happens?
:-if a class is called and requires a different definition for
:-an inherited method, then once that method is redefined in the derived class
:-then this would be overriding.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
:-exceptions occur when the program is disrupted from the normal flow of the program.
:-we can use the try{ ...}catch(Exception)

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
:-static is used for memory management. By declaring static variables, we can have multiple
:-Objects use the same variable; in Methods any static method can call any
:-other static method in the same file or any static method in a java library

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
:-final is used as a restriction on the user. to stop value change, stop
:-method overridding and stop inheritance
:- if you make a variable final(you can't change it); in method(can't override)

What is final, finally and finalize?
:-final keyword can be used along with variable and methods.
:-finally is used for exception handling along with try and catch
:-finalize() method is called by Garbage collection thread

What is a constructor ?
:-constructor is used to initialize our Objects

What is "this" keyword in java ?
:-this is a reference variable that refers to the current Object

What is "super" keyword in java?
:-super is a reference variable that is used to refer to immediate parent class

What is JVM stand for ?
:-Java virtual machine

What version of java are you using?
:-java version "1.8.0_51"

What is JAR stand for ?
:-JAR: java ARchive

What is compile time and run time?
:-compile time, operation performed by a compiler and requirements that must be met
:-run time, length of time a program takes to run

What is heap?
:-specialized tree based abstract data type; that satisfies the heap property.

How java manage it's memory?
:-Objects reside in the heap. Heap is created when JVM starts up and may increase or
:-decrease in size, When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected.